provider "aws" {
    region = "ap-south-1"
  
}

resource "aws_s3_bucket" "sravankumar_bucket" {
    bucket = "sravan-demo-bucket-${terraform.workspace}"

    tags = {
      environment = terraform.workspace
    }
  
}

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
🧠 What is a Terraform Workspace?

A Terraform workspace is an isolated environment that allows you to manage multiple instances of the same Terraform configuration with separate state files.

Each workspace keeps its own Terraform state, which defines what resources have been created, updated, or destroyed.
This means you can reuse the same Terraform code to manage different environments — such as development, testing, and production — without interfering with each other’s resources.

🧩 Key Concepts
Single Configuration, Multiple States
A workspace lets you use one set of Terraform files to deploy separate environments.
Each workspace has its own state file, so changes in one environment don’t affect another.

State Isolation
Terraform uses a state file (terraform.tfstate) to track the real-world infrastructure it manages.
When you switch workspaces, Terraform automatically switches to the state file belonging to that workspace.

Default Workspace
When you initialize a new Terraform project, a default workspace is automatically created.
Unless you explicitly create or switch to another workspace, all operations occur in the default one.

Naming and Organization
Workspaces are typically named to represent environments (for example: dev, staging, prod).
Terraform references the active workspace name internally through the built-in variable terraform.workspace.

Use Case
Workspaces help teams avoid maintaining multiple copies of the same configuration for different environments.
They provide a clean and safe way to manage environment-specific resources while maintaining consistent infrastructure definitions.

State Storage
In a local backend, Terraform stores each workspace’s state in a subdirectory inside .terraform/terraform.tfstate.d/.
In a remote backend (like S3, Azure Storage, etc.), Terraform manages workspace states separately within that backend.

Limitations
Workspaces isolate state, not configuration — meaning you can’t have different variable defaults or settings per workspace unless you define them explicitly.

They are best suited for small, environment-level separation, not for managing entirely different infrastructures.
